in 2012 great Guatemalan artists
They joined the country who with their
death dismayed family friends
and followers of his talent in the
different disciplines where
they entered hector gaitán was born in the
city of guatemala on January 25,
1939 and died on Wednesday, February 1 at
the 73 years the storyteller
recognized by the phrase as I would
they told you the story will be remembered by
his work as a journalist and
Guatemalan writer rescued the
oral tradition of the country and its books the
street where you live are a
compilation of urban stories
Guatemalan Ramón Banús Painter and
artist was born in Guatemala in 1938 and
he died on Tuesday, March 6 at 73
years since he was small showed interest and
ability for drawing and painting
The 23 year old went to live in Italy
where he made several exhibitions
collective and personal in 1963 returned
to guatemala and he mounted his first show
in the country then he went to Spain and
studied at the school of fine arts of
barcelona during that time
a lot of literary encounters with
European writers also participated in
artistic festivals and lived 10 years in
Europe
light méndez de la vega was born in 1919 and
he died on Thursday , March 8 at 92
years study in guatemala and in spain 'and
He was a member of the Guatemalan academy
of the language corresponding to the real
Spanish academy was awarded the
National Literature Award Miguel
angel Asturias in 1994 and will remain
remembered for its enormous potential
metaphorical and aesthetic of his work
'Ricardo Matta was born on July 1,
1934 although his documents record that
was on August 14 passed away on Tuesday 1
May at the age of 77 he became interested
for photography between 13 and 14 years
and in 1957 he opened his first studio and
he founded the guatemala photographic club
he was honorary director of the zoo the
Aurora between 1963 and 1966 was a photographer
official at the first visit of the Pope
Juan Pablo Second in Guatemala in 1983
in 1988 he signed his first contract with the
national biography magazine for which
photographed volcanoes erupting on
master of the image devoted more than 60
years to capture moments and received
innumerable distinctions jorge
Branches teacher composer and director
of orchestra pianist and saxophonist was born
in san antonio suchitepéquez in 1931 and
died on Wednesday , September 26 at
the 81- year- old was a founding member
of the art school of the
Universidad de San Carlos de Guatemala one
of his last recognitions was the
order of the rising sun that granted him
japan in last february the eternal
in love with music as he was known
composed more than a hundred works
during his artistic life other artists
who left us in this 2012 were
he is joined by flowers who died on the 6th
April and will be remembered for its dynamism
and majesty and mystic founded the
terracotta grouping in 1976 known
as they dance kubel participated for more than
35 years in his musical work and showed his
Maya skills and wisdom knowledge
Maria Teresa Fernandez born 16
December 1918 and died on Tuesday
April 24 at 93
the distinguished academic was a poet and
member of the Guatemalan Academy of
the language and great exponent of the language
and education in the country studied drawing
and painting at the National Academy of
fine arts and founded the society
literary Juan Fermin Aycinena and the
school newspaper the sacred family in
an anise Lima died on June 18 at
the 79-year-old was a teacher from her
youth and it was the first women
in entering college and graduating
as a lawyer and notary she was also
promoter of development diffusion and
the cultural promotion that the country had
in the 1960s this amalgam of
national talent left a great legacy that
surely it will be immortalized in the
present and future generations
rest in peace national artists